.\" 
.\"  			@(#)catmail.1	6.2 CREN 97/01/14
.\" 
.\" 			Copyright (c) 1993-97 by
.\" 	the Corporation for Research and Educational Networking (CREN)
.\" 
.\" All rights reserved. This software comprises confidential
.\" information of CREN and may not be used, copied or made available to anyone,
.\" except in accordance with the license under which it is furnished.
.\" 
.\" SCCS file: /usr/SCCS/home/server/listproc/distrib/doc/s.catmail.1
.\" 
.\" 
.\" ListProcessor(tm) System
.\" Copyright (c) 1993-97 by the Corporation for Research and Educational Networking (CREN)
.\"
.TH catmail 1 "ListProcessor(tm)"
.SH NAME
\fBcatmail\fP \- append incoming mail to ListProcessor(tm) system files
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcatmail\fP {<\fB-L LIST_ALIAS\fP [\fB-e|-o\fP]> | <\fB-r\fP>} [\fB-f\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcatmail\fP is used to redirect incoming mail to the ListProcessor(tm) system
to the appropriate files, according to the flags specified and the list's configuration.
The files affected are:
.sp
.nf
.in +2
LPDIR/requests (user requests)
LPDIR/lists/LIST_ALIAS/mail (messages to be distributed)
LPDIR/lists/LIST_ALIAS/moderated (messages to be screened out)
LPDIR/lists/LIST_ALIAS/errors (delivery errors)
.in -2
.fi
.PP
\fIcatmail\fP reports the
user id and user name that is currently executing it; the setuid bit
has to be set when installed. 
.PP
\fIcatmail\fP first locks the output file(s)
before appending to it/them; if the file(s) cannot be locked after 3 minutes, the
mail is saved under LPDIR/lost+found or LPDIR/lists/LIST_ALIAS/lost+found;
both \fIlist\fP and \fIlistproc\fP
lock their mail files while copying them to a safe place. 
.PP
\fIcatmail\fP will
time out after 5 minutes to avoid deadlock situations, and the mail message
may be returned to the sender as undeliverable.
.SH OPTIONS
The following command line options are recognized:
.TP
-L LIST_ALIAS
If the list is not moderated-no-edit, append to
LPDIR/lists/LIST_ALIAS/mail; otherwise append to
LPDIR/lists/LIST_ALIAS/moderated (see \fIlist(1)\fP).
.TP
-e
Append to LPDIR/lists/\fILIST_ALIAS\fP/errors instead.
.TP
-o
Send message to the owners instead.
.TP
-r
Append to LPDIR/requests (overrides -L).
.TP
-f
Reformat the message in the process: all lines in the message except the first
starting with "From " are converted to ">From ".
(see also SYSTEM\ SETUP in \fIserver\fP(1)).
.SH USAGE
For each list (foo), three aliases are required to be defined in your system's
global aliases file:
.sp
.nf
.in +2
foo:			|LPDIR/catmail -L foo -f
foo-request:	|LPDIR/catmail -L foo -fo
owner-foo:	|LPDIR/catmail -L foo -fe
.in -2
.fi
.sp
In addition, you need to define the following alias for user requests:
.sp
.nf
.in +2
listproc:		|LPDIR/catmail -rf
.in -2
.fi
.sp
where LPDIR is the full path to the directory ListProcessor(tm) is installed.
.SH SEE\ ALSO
list(1), listproc(1), server(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1993-97 by the Corporation for Research and Educational Networking (CREN)
