.\" 
.\"  			@(#)farch.1	6.5 CREN 97/02/18
.\" 
.\" 			Copyright (c) 1993-97 by
.\" 	the Corporation for Research and Educational Networking (CREN)
.\" 
.\" All rights reserved. This software comprises confidential
.\" information of CREN and may not be used, copied or made available to anyone,
.\" except in accordance with the license under which it is furnished.
.\" 
.\" SCCS file: /usr/SCCS/home/server/listproc/distrib/doc/s.farch.1
.\" 
.\" 
.\" ListProcessor(tm) System
.\" Copyright (c) 1993-97 by the Corporation for Research and Educational Networking (CREN)
.\"
.TH farch 1 "ListProcessor(tm)"
.SH NAME
\fBfarch\fP \- archive files under the ListProcessor(tm) system
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBfarch\fP [\fB-G\ gate_sid -S\ mask_sid\fP] {{[\fB-n\fP] [\fB-b\fP | \fB-B\fP] [\fB-s\ size\fP] [\fB-d\ dir\fP] [\fB-p\ password\fP] [\fB-D\ description\fP]\ [\fB-t\ file\fP] [\fB-u\fP]} | {[\fB-r\fP]} [<\fB-a | -A\fP> \fBarchive | path-to-archive\fP] [\fB-Z\fP] [\fBfiles\fP]} | {<\fB-R\ archive\fP>}
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIfarch\fP is used to archive files under the ListProcessor(tm) system 
or remove files already archived, with support provided for private archives.
Archives reside under LPDIR/archives as subdirectories; the default is
\fIlistproc\fP,
and it is also the master archive. Archives are hierarchically
structured, and each archive has at least two files in its directory:
.TP
INDEX
A list of all subarchives including itself; the format is one line per
archive with the archive's name followed by the archive's full path, followed
by an optional password:
.sp
archive-name full-path-to-archive-directory [password]
.sp
The first entry should be the archive itself;
each first level subarchive is listed next; then each second level
subarchive, starting with the first first-level-archive's subarchives,
followed by the second first-level-archive's subarchives, etc. No sibling
archives may have the same name, although there is no such restriction
for archives on different levels, or "cousin" archives. The latter archives
are distinguished by the relative path needed to access them (see
\fIserver\fP(1) for more information).
.sp
An archive name may start with the special character % to designate
it for AFD/FUI files.
.TP
DIR
A list of files available from that archive; the format is one line
per file with the file name followed by the number of parts it may be
split into, followed by the number of bytes of each of the parts, followed
by the full path to the directory these parts can be found, followed
by a short descriptive message about the file (optional). The descriptive
message may span several lines; each line (except the last) should end 
with a '\\':
.sp
.nf
file nparts size-of-each-part+ full-path-to-directory [description [\\]]
[multiple description lines [\\]]*
.fi
.sp
The number of parts the file is split into may be -1 to indicate that
this is a binary file.
.PP
Moreover, the following system files may appear in an archive; these are
system generated and maintained and should not be hand-modified:
.TP
SFT
Subscribers Files Table (for AFD/FUI); syntax:
.sp
.nf
<address> <file///mode> [file///mode]...
.sp
.fi
where mode = D for delivery, N for notification. / is the field separator,
and currently there are two fields reserved for future use.
.TP
FST
Files Subscribers Table (for AFD/FUI); syntax:
.sp
.nf
<file> <timestamp> <address ///mode> [address ///mode]...
.sp
.fi
Notice the space after the address.
.sp
Entries in both files may be continued on the next line if they end with \\.
Comments are supported; put a # in column 1.
.TP
FMT
File Modification times Table (for AFD/FUI); syntax:
.sp
.nf
<file> <modification time>
.fi
.TP
CONFIG
.sp
This file contains configuration information about the archive used
in ARCHIVE requests. The following keywords may appear:
.sp
.nf
mask <mask-value> <user password> <chunk size>
directory <archive directory>
password <administrative password>
owner <owner address>
.fi
.sp
The mask stores information about the accessibility of the archive
(private or not), the compression state of files, whether files are to be
split, and whether the archive is AFD/FUI-able.
.PP
\fIfarch\fP reports on the action taken on each input file: whether it
was split (and how many parts), whether it was uuencoded, whether all files
have been tar'red into a single one, the archive this file was archived under,
and the directory the output file(s) (if any) has/have been placed. It
also reports when the input files are tarred.
.SH OPTIONS
The following command line options are recognized:
.TP
-G gate_sid
Specify the gate semaphore id; to obtain this id run the semset utility and
look for the server id with positive key (0x00000001 -- hex 1 -- or higher).
This id exists only when serverd is up; if not, you should not specify a -G
flag. If the server is up, the first number in the .semaphores file is the
gate id.
.TP
-S mask_sid
Specify the mask semaphore id; to obtain this id run the semset utility and
look for the server id with key 0x00000000 (hex 0). This id exists only
when serverd is up; if not, you should not specify a -S flag.
If the server is up, the second number in the .semaphores file is the
mask id.
Below is sample output from semset; the gate semaphore id is 30 and the
mask semaphore id is 31:
.nf

server: ~/listproc 254% semset
 ... [stuff deleted] ...
T ID KEY        MODE          OWNER    GROUP  CREATOR   CGROUP ...
Semaphores:
s 30 0x00000001 --ra-------   server   other  root      other  ...
s 31 0x00000000 --ra-------   server   other  root      other  ...

.fi
.TP
-n
Do not split files when archiving them. The default is to split them with
each part not larger than the specified size (see the -s option below).
.TP
-b
Input files are binary; they are uuencoded before archived.
.TP
-B
Input files are binary; they are neither uuencoded nor split.
.TP
-s size
Specify the maximum \fIsize\fP in kilobytes of each of the subparts 
(default is 64).
.TP
-d dir
Specify the \fIdir\fPectory that the output files are to be placed; if
left out, it defaults to the specified archive's directory
(LPDIR/archives/listproc if the archive is left out as well).
If the directory (and all of its subdirectories, if any) does not exist,
it will be created.
.TP
-p password
When a new archive is to be created, and that archive is to be private,
specify the access password.
.TP
-D description
Put \fIdescription\fP (most likely surrounded by single quotes) in the
DIR file as explanatory comment about the archived file. This option does
not make much sense when archiving more than one file at the same time.
.TP
-t file
Input files are tar'red into \fIfile\fP which is then archived (the -b flag
is automatically turned on). Turning on the -B flag will prevent uuencoding
of the tar file. Note that whatever the path to \fIfile\fP may
be, it will be moved to the specified directory as specified by the -d flag.
.TP
-u
Update existing files while archiving; preserve the current comment fields,
unless -D is explicitly used.
.TP
-r
Remove the specified file(s) from the specified archive (see below), or the
default one; it has higher priority than all of the options above.
.TP
-a archive | path-to-archive
Specify the \fIarchive\fP that the input files will be archived under (default
is listproc). Archives on different levels of the hierarchy may have the
same name and in this case a \fIpath-to-archive\fP may be specified to
distinguish between them;
\fIpath-to-archive\fP has the form \fIarchive[/archive[/archive...]]\fP
(see also \fIserver(1)\fP). If any of the archives in the path do not exist,
they will be created with the necessary files.
.TP
-A archive | path-to-archive
Same as -a, put it marks the archive ready for AFD/FUI files. To switch 
this mode off, simply specify the -a flag and vice versa.
.TP
-Z
Turn off file compression.
.TP
-R archive
Remove the specified archive, and all of its subarchives. The default archive
cannot be removed.
.PP
File names in the DIR file have to be unique and \fIfarch\fP will not
archive duplicate files.
.SH ARCHIVING\ A\ FILE
\fIfarch\fP by default splits the input files if necessary
(or the tar file, if any),
into files of maximum size as specified. Each part
will contain as many complete lines from the original input file as possible,
without exceeding the specified size. Binary files (including the tar file)
are uuencoded before they are archived unless the -B option is specified,
and all archived files are compressed, if possible.
.SH ADDING\ A\ NEW\ ARCHIVE
.TP
automatically
Simply specify the new archive as argument to the -a flag. All necessary DIR
and INDEX files as well as all required directories will be created, and
all parent archives will be updated.
.TP
by hand
Step 1
.sp
Create a directory under LPDIR/archives or under an existing
archive's directory (beware of the hierarchy structure), naming the
directory after the archive.
The archive's name should be unique among its siblings on that level in the
hierarchy (besides, mkdir will not let specify a name that already exists).
.sp
Step 2
.sp
Edit the master archive's index file (LPDIR/archives/listproc/INDEX) and
add the new archive along with its path (and optional password -- see below)
at the proper place in the file, making sure you adhere to the
rules about hierarchy outlined above. The first line of every INDEX
file should be the archive itself. Also edit (add to) every ancestor archive's
INDEX file, if the new archive is not the default, again making sure you adhere
to the same rules.
.sp
Step 3
.sp
Create a new INDEX file in the new archive's directory and put an entry
for itself.
.sp
Step 4
.sp
Create an empty DIR file in the new archive's directory.
.SH PRIVATE\ ARCHIVES
Private archives are archives that require a password for obtaining
indices and/or files from them. To make an archive private, simply
append a password (case does not matter) after its full path specification
in every INDEX file the archive is defined (its own plus all ancestors' --
the same password has to be used in all of these files). Then, that 
password has
to be made known to all users who are to be granted access to this archive.
Note that all files in the same private archive can be obtained with the
same single password.
.SH EXAMPLES
Archive src/data and src/data2 under archive listproc (the default),
using a maximum file size of 1K; the output file(s) will be placed in /tmp/tmp:
.sp
.nf
.in +2
% farch -s 1 -d /tmp/tmp src/data src/data2
.fi
.in -2
.sp
Archive /etc/hosts under archive unix (that is listproc/unix) -- the -n
flag is used to avoid writing split parts to /etc which is doomed to fail:
.sp
.nf
.in +2
% farch -n -a unix -d /etc -p private /etc/hosts
.fi
.in -2
.sp
Archive /etc/password under archive pub/unix (that is listproc/pub/unix):
.sp
.nf
.in +2
% farch -n -a pub/unix -d /etc /etc/passwd
.fi
.in -2
.sp
Tar and archive all files in /usr/src to the default archive and place the
tar file under /tmp/tmp:
.sp
.nf
.in +2
% farch -t LPDIR/source -d /tmp/tmp /usr/src/*.c
.fi
.in -2
.sp
Descriptive messages about these files are added manually into the archive's
DIR file. However, the -D option can be used to specify a string as follows:
.sp
.nf
.in +2
% farch -D 'ListProcessor(tm) system files' -t ulistproc.tar -n -d /usr/server /usr/server/*
.SH UPGRADING
If you are upgrading from:
.TP
6.0
The -A option is new; functionality is the same.
.TP
5.5
The -B, -p, -r and -D options are new; functionality is the same.
.TP
5.41 or less
Every DIR file should now include the size of each of the parts of every
file, placed between the number of parts and the path name.
.sp
The -a option has been extended to accept paths to archives.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
\-
Archive names and input files must use only lower case characters of the
alphabet.
.SH WARNINGS
\-
Input files that are to be tar'red should only include relative path names;
otherwise the end user may not be able to extract them.
.sp
\-
The tar file should not be any of the input files.
.SH SEE\ ALSO
server(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1993-97 by the Corporation for Research and Educational Networking (CREN)
