.\" 
.\"  			@(#)queue.1	6.2 CREN 97/01/14
.\" 
.\" 			Copyright (c) 1993-97 by
.\" 	the Corporation for Research and Educational Networking (CREN)
.\" 
.\" All rights reserved. This software comprises confidential
.\" information of CREN and may not be used, copied or made available to anyone,
.\" except in accordance with the license under which it is furnished.
.\" 
.\" SCCS file: /usr/SCCS/home/server/listproc/distrib/doc/s.queue.1
.\" 
.\" 
.\" ListProcessor(tm) System
.\" Copyright (c) 1993-97 by the Corporation for Research and Educational Networking (CREN)
.\"
.TH queue 1 "ListProcessor(tm)"
.SH NAME
\fBqueued\fP \- ListProcessor(tm) mail queue daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBqueued\fP <\fBfrequency\fP> [\fBsemaphore id\fP]
.SH NAME
\fBpqueue\fP \- process the specified mail queue files
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpqueue\fP [\fB-e\fP] [\fB-D\fP] <\fBfiles\fP>
.SH OVERVIEW
This part of the ListProcessor(tm) system can be employed only when using the
\fIsystem\fP mailmethod (see \fIserver\fP(1)).
Mail messages rejected by the local MTA are queued by the system in the
directory LPDIR/mqueue. This part of the system attempts periodic
redelivery of these files. If problems still persist, files (messages)
that cannot be delivered are requeued.
.PP
Whenever a message is placed in the queue, the system's manager is notified.
It is advised that he/she scans the file for the cause of the rejection before
attempting redelivery. Messages are usually queued when the MTA is down
(in which case no manual scanning of the file is required), file systems
are full, etc. These correspond to error codes 4xx and 5xx (see RFC 821).
.SH DESCRIPTION:\ queued
This is the daemon that looks for files in the mail queue. It uses
\fIpqueue\fP for redelivery. The queue is checked every \fIfrequency\fP
seconds. Whenever an error occurs with \fIpqueue\fP, \fIqueued\fP sends
a mail message to \fImanager\fP (as defined in the \fIconfig\fP file)
and aborts.
.PP
If you are using multiple threads you need to give the semaphore id to
\fIqueued\fP. This id can be obtained by running the \fIsemset\fP utility
that comes with the system; the id is shown in column 2.
.PP
\fIqueued\fP is not spawned by \fIstart\fP(1) in order to reduce the number of
processes running, since the probability of messages being queued is
very low. Instead, it should be started manually whenever there are
files in the mail queue directory.
.SH DESCRIPTION:\ pqueue
The \fIfiles\fP given as arguments are redelivered. If any of these
cannot be redelivered, they are requeued and will be processed in the next
run. \fIpqueue\fP reports to the file LPDIR/.report.pqueue (if not using
syslog(3)).
.PP
The following command line options are recognized:
.TP
-e
Echo reports to the screen; it has no effect if the system is using syslog(3).
.TP
-D
Turns debugging on; a copy of the last SMTP transaction can be found in 
the files LPDIR/sent and LPDIR/received. Warning: these files
are also used by \fIlist\fP(1) and \fIlistproc\fP(1) when they have their
debug mode on, so use caution.
.SH NOTE
This mail queueing system should not be confused with the one implemented
by your MTA.
.SH SEE\ ALSO
server(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1993-97 by the Corporation for Research and Educational Networking (CREN)
