.\" 
.\"  			@(#)serverd.1	6.2 CREN 97/01/14
.\" 
.\" 			Copyright (c) 1993-97 by
.\" 	the Corporation for Research and Educational Networking (CREN)
.\" 
.\" All rights reserved. This software comprises confidential
.\" information of CREN and may not be used, copied or made available to anyone,
.\" except in accordance with the license under which it is furnished.
.\" 
.\" SCCS file: /usr/SCCS/home/server/listproc/distrib/doc/s.serverd.1
.\" 
.\" 
.\" ListProcessor(tm) System
.\" Copyright (c) 1993-97 by the Corporation for Research and Educational Networking (CREN)
.\"
.TH serverd 1 "ListProcessor(tm)"
.SH NAME
\fBserverd\fP \- ListProcessor(tm) system daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBserverd\fP [\fB-1\fP] [\fB-e\fP] [\fB-l load\fP] [\fB-i idle\fP] [\fB-p port\fP] [\fB-c max-connections\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIserverd\fP silently looks for any new messages for the request
server and for any of the supported mailing lists, checks whether
the time has arrived for processing the batch queue, whether
digest time has been reached for the various lists, and whether any
live TCP/IP connections are requested. It then spawns
\fIlistproc\fP(1) and/or \fIlist\fP(1) as necessary, and sleeps until the
message(s) is (are) processed. \fIserverd\fP reads the \fIconfig\fP file
(see \fIserver\fP(1)).
.SH OPTIONS
The following command line options are recognized:
.TP
-1
Execute only once -- to be used with cron(1).
.TP
-e
Echo reports to the screen; it has no effect if the system is using
syslog(3).
.TP
-l load
Enforce load restrictions; \fIserverd\fP will postpone spawning if the
system load is above the limit specified.
.TP
-i idle
A child process is also spawned which listens for live TCP/IP connections
at port 372 (this is referred to as the Listener process, and its parent as
the Master); for each such connection a child process is created to
process the live requests (see the INTERACTIVE\ LISTPROC section below). The
maximum \fIidle\fP time is given in seconds. All requests (including 
a mere newline) except \fItimeleft\fP reset the clock.
.TP
-p port
Specify another port to listen to. If greater than 1024, \fIserverd\fP does
not need to be setuid root.
.TP
-c max-connections
Specify the maximum number of live connections. Default is 5.
.SH INTERACTIVE\ LISTPROC
Provided that the host supports the TCP/IP protocol, the system provides
a mechanism for processing live requests by specifying the -i flag to
\fIserverd\fP. Any user may use \fItelnet\fP(1) to connect to a host
that runs this system at port number 372 (or as specified by -p), issue
requests as he would
by email, and receive responses immediately. However, the proper way
to connect to the server is by using \fIilp\fP(1), \fIxilp\fP(1), \fIwilp\fP(1),
or any of the other clients provided which let the user download
files through \fIget\fP requests, and provide other amenities as well.
.PP
What requests are allowed
depends on the privileges assigned upon login: the user is asked for
an email address (default is no email address); then a password should be
provided. 
.PP
If the user needs manager privileges, he has to provide both the
manager's email address and the system's password as they appear in the
\fIconfig\fP file.
.PP
If he wishes owner privileges, he has to provide both
his email address as it appears in the \fIowners\fP file and his list's
password as it appears in the list's \fIconfig\fP file. 
.PP
To gain subscriber privileges
he has to provide his email address as subscribed to the list where privileges
are to be granted to, as well as the password \fIset\fP for that list.
.PP
A mismatch or no email address reduces privileges to a minimum.
.PP
Requests for remote lists are serviced by attempting to connect to the
remote servers serving these lists.
.PP
The system may restrict connections to certain hosts, and/or reject connections
from certain hosts. First, the system looks for the file \fIpriv.hosts\fP
which lists hostnames and/or IP addresses that are allowed access; only
hosts listed in this file are granted acces. For example, to allow access to
hosts on one's local network only, one could do:
.sp
.ce
ln -s /etc/hosts LPDIR/priv.hosts
.sp
Next, the file \fIunwanted.hosts\fP is looked up, and connections from hosts
listed in it are rejected. Regular expressions may be used in both files.
.sp
The duration of each connection is basically unlimited, but the argument to
the -i flag specifies an idle timeout. Moreover, all connections one day
or older are candidates for preemption if and when a connection is requested
and all ports are busy; in that case, an old connection will be timed out
and the new one will be accepted. The idle timeout is reset upon every
request sent, even a newline, except \fItimeleft\fP. If the manager wishes
to preempt a live process (i.e. kill it) he/she should send the process
a USR1 signal. Operation of the system is serialized via a semaphore.
.PP
To set up your system to accept such connections, the following line has to
be inserted into your host's /etc/services file:
.sp
.ce
ulistproc   372/tcp
.sp
This port is privileged, therefore \fIserverd\fP has to be started with
root privileges (the \fIsetup\fP script takes care of this). If you do not
have root access you may specify another port number above 1024, via the
-p flag.
.SH SEE\ ALSO
ilp(1), xilp(1), wilp(1), list(1), listproc(1), queue(1), server(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1993-97 by the Corporation for Research and Educational Networking (CREN)
