.\" 
.\"  			@(#)start.1	6.2 CREN 97/01/14
.\" 
.\" 			Copyright (c) 1993-97 by
.\" 	the Corporation for Research and Educational Networking (CREN)
.\" 
.\" All rights reserved. This software comprises confidential
.\" information of CREN and may not be used, copied or made available to anyone,
.\" except in accordance with the license under which it is furnished.
.\" 
.\" SCCS file: /usr/SCCS/home/server/listproc/distrib/doc/s.start.1
.\" 
.\" 
.\" ListProcessor(tm) System
.\" Copyright (c) 1993-97 by the Corporation for Research and Educational Networking (CREN)
.\"
.TH start 1 "ListProcessor(tm)"
.SH NAME
\fBstart\fP \- start/stop the ListProcessor(tm) system
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBstart\fP [\fB-c\fP] [\fB-r\fP] [\fB-k\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIstart\fP is used to start or stop the ListProcessor(tm) system.
When starting the system, any
previous server processes still running are killed, all necessary
lock files are created, any previous reports are archived into files with
extension \fI.acc\fP (if not using syslog(3)), new files and directories are
created as necessary, interrupted list mail is restored, and \fIserverd\fP(1)
is spawned.
.PP
\fIstart\fP reads the \fIconfig\fP file (see \fIserver(1)\fP), and should
always be run from the server account.
.SH OPTIONS
The following command line options are recognized:
.TP
-c
Suppress confirmation when killing processes or when creating new
mailing list directories and files.
.TP
-k
Just kill any old server system processes and exit.
.TP
-r
Restrict reporting to stdout.
.SH SEE\ ALSO
server(1), serverd(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1993-97 by the Corporation for Research and Educational Networking (CREN)
